# COM519 Advance Datebase AE1
<br>
Github original repo: [link]https://github.com/IgorGrey/COM519AdvanceDatebaseAE1.git <br>
Github deployment repo: [link]https://github.com/IgorGrey/AdvDbAe1DEPLOY<br>
Deployed app availible on [link]https://calm-fly-life-jacket.cyclic.app/ <br>
Database [link]https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/piterfm/2022-ukraine-russian-war <br>
<br>
## How to run it using VS Code IDE:<br>
- clone github repo
- execute following commands sequentialy:
1. npm install
2. npm run dev
- visit location suggested in terminal outpun (from browser)
- <br>
## About
Ongoing war been Russia and Ukraine brought alot of attention internationally. 
Data handling and visualisation of recorded data can show reality of this historical event in numbers/graphs.
Web app desined to view, add, delete records related to Equipment losses & 
Death Toll & Military Wounded & Prisoner of War of russians
<br>

## Introduction

## 
## System Overview<br>
This Web Application displays filtered information on webpage pulled from database and alows to add new records and edit existing (CRUD). General purpouse of the app is to infom public of current personnel and equipment losses by Russia during ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine.
! [Diagram](/public/Image 20-01-2023 at 14.29.jpeg) <br>
MVC stack, NodeJs, Express, Bootstrap, MongoDB - main techologies used in this project.
<br>

## Key Design Decisions
- By the nature data its split into two collections, that required to create separte views for each and also separate controllers. Originally plan was to have joint view but discarded due to time constrains with front end design. 
Edit and Delete buttons accessible for quick edit or delete process. Delete will delete specific row of data from database. And Edit button will redirect to new Edit view page (Should be done Using Ajax).
- In views that display mulitple rows limit introdused not to overload the page if data is large.


##  Database Design
Database taken from Kaggle, with 10.0 usability. Two collections, personnel losses and equipment losses. -id is autogenerated by MongoDB. 

## Security and Scalability
At this stage only controllers do basic filtering what writes into database. Considering data chosen for this project it could be quite sensitive when used by public, it's suggested to enforce input with additional rules and filters. Additionaly some sort of API could be used to obtain LIVE updates from official sourses. 
As far as Im aware there is no reasonable limitation for this app, taking into count that data is small and updated relativaly slow. Suggestion for security  to have login and strict verification to be able to write, edit and delete data.

## Conclusion and reflection
In general this simple application successfully creates, reads and deletes and edites data from/to non-realational database (MongoDb) and developed following the MVC stack. Additionally, NodeJS and Express thechologies helped significantly for development. Ploting and visualisation was original idea for this project that would lighten up the data and potentially as animated 3D, this features yet to be developed in the future. As improvement retreiving data from Both official sides of the fighting countries would be benefitial for comparison. Regardless, basic concept of dealing with Non-Relational database is a great outcome of this assgnment.
